README.md, before:

# Query 'Em All

This is an exercise in writing queries with React Query and displaying loading states, error states, and data using the external [Pokémon API](https://pokeapi.co).

## Steps

### 0. Cloning and installation

- [ ] Clone this repo, navigate to it, install packages, and start the server with `npm run dev`
  <details style="padding-left: 2em">
    <summary>Tip</summary>

  ```sh
  cd query-em-all-sofia
  npm i
  npm run dev
  ```

  </details>

### 1. Looking Around

Visit [localhost:5173/](http://localhost:5173/) and [localhost:5173/pokemon/${pokemon_name}] e.g. (http://localhost:5173/pokemon/bulbasaur).

Try out the APIs in Insomnia to see what they return.

### 2. React Query Set Up

- Installed React Query and React Query Devtools

```sh
npm i @tanstack/react-query @tanstack/react-query-devtools
```

- In `client/index.tsx` imported `{ QueryClient, QueryClientProvider }` from `@tanstack/react-query`

- In `client/index.tsx` imported `{ ReactQueryDevTools }` from `@tanstack/react-query-devtools`

- Created a new `QueryClient` instance and wrapped the `<RouterProvider />` component in a `<QueryClientProvider>` component, passing the `QueryClient` instance as a prop.

- [ ] Within the `QueryClient` instance, added the `<ReactQueryDevTools />` component.

---

## Challenges

### 1. Fetching a list of Pokémon from the API

- [ ] As a user, I want to see a list of the first generation of Pokémon so that I can see what Pokémon there are

  - In `<PokemonList>` use `useQuery` and `fetchPokemonGeneration` to render a list of Pokémon (just the names)
    <details style="padding-left: 2em">
      <summary>More about fetching Pokémon</summary>
      
      - `fetchPokemonGeneration` takes a `generation` parameter, which is a number between 1 and 9, in this case, we want to fetch the first generation of Pokémon, so we can pass `1`
      - Check the type in `models/pokemon.ts` a generation is an object with three properties: `{ region: string, name: string, pokemon: PartialPokemon[] }`
      - `useQuery` takes a key (a string) and a function that returns a promise (`fetchPokemonGeneration`, in this case) and returns an object with a `data` property, which will eventually contain data returned by the promise

    Read more about [keys](https://tanstack.com/query/latest/docs/react/guides/query-keys) and [queries](https://tanstack.com/query/latest/docs/react/guides/queries) in the [React Query docs](https://tanstack.com/query/latest/docs/react).
    </details>

### 2. Adding a loading state

- [ ] As a user, I want to see a loading state while the list of Pokémon is being fetched so that I know something is happening
<details style="padding-left: 2em">
  <summary>More about loading states</summary>
  
  - `useQuery` returns an `isLoading` property that you can use to determine when to render a loading state
  - You can use the `<LoadingSpinner>` component to render a special pokéball loading spinner
</details>

### 3. Adding an error state

- [ ] As a user, if something goes wrong while fetching the list of Pokémon, I want to see an error state so that I know something went wrong
  <details style="padding-left: 2em">
    <summary>More about error states</summary>

  - `useQuery` returns an `isError` (true or false), and `error` properties that you can use to render an error state

  </details>

### 4. Fetching a single Pokémon

- [ ] As a user, when I click on a Pokémon in the list, I want to see more information about that Pokémon so that I can learn more about it

  - In `<PokemonList>`, add a `<Link>` to each Pokémon that links to `/pokemon/:name`, where `:name` is the name of the Pokémon, note: the URL should be the lowercase name of the Pokémon (e.g. `/pokemon/bulbasaur`)
  - In `<PokemonDetail>`, use `useQuery` and `fetchPokemon` to render the Pokémon's name, image, and types
  <details style="padding-left: 2em">
    <summary>More about Pokémon details</summary>
    
    Have a look in `models/pokemon.ts` at the `Pokemon` type to see what properties are available to you.
  </details>

  - In `<PokemonDetail>`, add loading and error states

### 5. Adding more data to `<PokemonDetail>`

- [ ] As a user, I want to see more information about the Pokémon so that I can learn more about it
  - In `<PokemonDetail>`, use `console.log` to see what the _actual_ API is returning
  - Choose some fields and add them to the `Pokemon` type in `models/pokemon.ts`
  - In `<PokemonDetail>`, render those new fields in some way of your choosing

---

## Stretch

<details>
  <summary>More about stretch challenges</summary>

- [ ] As a user, on the homepage (`/`) I want to see a list of all the generations, so that I can click on one, go to `/generations/:generationId` and see the list of Pokémon for that generation

- [ ] As a user, I want to see a search bar at the top of the page, so that I can search for a Pokémon by name, when I hit enter, I want to be taken to `/search?name=pokemonName`, which should display a filtered list of Pokémon

</details>

---

[Provide feedback on this repo](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfw4FGdWkLwMLlUaNQ8FtP2CTJdGDUv6Xoxrh19zIrJSkvT4Q/viewform?usp=pp_url&entry.1958421517=query-em-all)

Commit message:

fetched list of pokemon names with useQuery

README.md, after:

# Query 'Em All

This is an exercise in writing queries with React Query and displaying loading states, error states, and data using the external [Pokémon API](https://pokeapi.co).

## Steps

### 0. Cloning and installation

- [ ] Clone this repo, navigate to it, install packages, and start the server with `npm run dev`
  <details style="padding-left: 2em">
    <summary>Tip</summary>

  ```sh
  cd query-em-all-sofia
  npm i
  npm run dev
  ```

  </details>

### 1. Looking Around

Visit [localhost:5173/](http://localhost:5173/) and [localhost:5173/pokemon/${pokemon_name}] e.g. (http://localhost:5173/pokemon/bulbasaur).

Try out the APIs in Insomnia to see what they return.

### 2. React Query Set Up

- Installed React Query and React Query Devtools

```sh
npm i @tanstack/react-query @tanstack/react-query-devtools
```

- In `client/index.tsx` imported `{ QueryClient, QueryClientProvider }` from `@tanstack/react-query`

- In `client/index.tsx` imported `{ ReactQueryDevTools }` from `@tanstack/react-query-devtools`

- Created a new `QueryClient` instance and wrapped the `<RouterProvider />` component in a `<QueryClientProvider>` component, passing the `QueryClient` instance as a prop.

- [ ] Within the `QueryClient` instance, added the `<ReactQueryDevTools />` component.

---

## Challenges

### 1. Fetched a list of Pokémon from the API

- [ ] As a user, I want to see a list of the first generation of Pokémon so that I can see what Pokémon there are

  - In `<PokemonList>`, used `useQuery` and `fetchPokemonGenerationApi` to render a list of Pokémon.
    <details style="padding-left: 2em">
      <summary>More about fetching Pokémon</summary>
      
      - `fetchPokemonGenerationApi` takes a `generation` parameter, which is a number between 1 and 9.
      - As per `models/pokemon.ts`, a generation is an object with three properties: `{ region: string, name: string, pokemon: PartialPokemon[] }`
      - `useQuery` takes a key (a string) and a function that returns a promise (`fetchPokemonGenerationApi`, in this case) and returns an object with a `data` property, which contains data returned by the promise.

    </details>

### 2. Adding a loading state

- [ ] As a user, I want to see a loading state while the list of Pokémon is being fetched so that I know something is happening
<details style="padding-left: 2em">
  <summary>More about loading states</summary>
  
  - `useQuery` returns an `isLoading` property that you can use to determine when to render a loading state
  - You can use the `<LoadingSpinner>` component to render a special pokéball loading spinner
</details>

### 3. Adding an error state

- [ ] As a user, if something goes wrong while fetching the list of Pokémon, I want to see an error state so that I know something went wrong
  <details style="padding-left: 2em">
    <summary>More about error states</summary>

  - `useQuery` returns an `isError` (true or false), and `error` properties that you can use to render an error state

  </details>

### 4. Fetching a single Pokémon

- [ ] As a user, when I click on a Pokémon in the list, I want to see more information about that Pokémon so that I can learn more about it

  - In `<PokemonList>`, add a `<Link>` to each Pokémon that links to `/pokemon/:name`, where `:name` is the name of the Pokémon, note: the URL should be the lowercase name of the Pokémon (e.g. `/pokemon/bulbasaur`)
  - In `<PokemonDetail>`, use `useQuery` and `fetchPokemon` to render the Pokémon's name, image, and types
  <details style="padding-left: 2em">
    <summary>More about Pokémon details</summary>
    
    Have a look in `models/pokemon.ts` at the `Pokemon` type to see what properties are available to you.
  </details>

  - In `<PokemonDetail>`, add loading and error states

### 5. Adding more data to `<PokemonDetail>`

- [ ] As a user, I want to see more information about the Pokémon so that I can learn more about it
  - In `<PokemonDetail>`, use `console.log` to see what the _actual_ API is returning
  - Choose some fields and add them to the `Pokemon` type in `models/pokemon.ts`
  - In `<PokemonDetail>`, render those new fields in some way of your choosing

---

## Stretch

<details>
  <summary>More about stretch challenges</summary>

- [ ] As a user, on the homepage (`/`) I want to see a list of all the generations, so that I can click on one, go to `/generations/:generationId` and see the list of Pokémon for that generation

- [ ] As a user, I want to see a search bar at the top of the page, so that I can search for a Pokémon by name, when I hit enter, I want to be taken to `/search?name=pokemonName`, which should display a filtered list of Pokémon

</details>

---

[Provide feedback on this repo](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfw4FGdWkLwMLlUaNQ8FtP2CTJdGDUv6Xoxrh19zIrJSkvT4Q/viewform?usp=pp_url&entry.1958421517=query-em-all)
